(Relates to requiring anthropogenic CO2 recycling in concrete used in state projects; 
creates market stimulus to scale up CO2 capture and utilization technologies)
--------
AN ACT

To amend the state procurement policies, in relation to requiring Low Embodied Carbon Concrete be used in state projects; 
creates a preferential standard for concrete implementing CO2 capture and utilization technologies.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly do enact as follows:

Section 1. Section 165 of the state finance law is amended by adding a new subdivision 9 to read as follows:
9. Special provisions for purchase concrete. 

a. For the purposes of this section, “Concrete” shall refer to structural and non-structural masonry and ready mix concrete building 
products made with Portland cement. “Embodied Carbon Emissions” shall mean carbon emissions generated by the production and transportation 
of concrete to building sites, including mining, refining, and shipping. “Low Embodied Carbon Concrete” shall mean concrete that has been 
verified to embody lower carbon emissions, as measured by a Global Warming Potential metric, compared to the baseline embodied carbon emissions 
of conventional concrete. Low Embodied Carbon Emissions can be achieved through diverse methods and processes including but not limited to i. higher 
energy efficiency at the level of the concrete and/or cement plant, ii. low carbon fuel substitution at the level of the concrete and/or cement plant, 
iii. the reduction of clinker content in the cement component of concrete, or the substitution of clinker content with lower carbon-intensive 
alternative materials, and iv. the capture and storage of point source CO2 emissions during 16 the cement and concrete production process; 
and/or the utilization and mineralization of carbon in concrete materials. “Environmental Product Declaration (EPD)“ shall mean a scientifically 
verifiable methodology for analyzing, quantifying and certifying the embodied carbon emissions of products and materials, as measured by a Global 
Warming Potential metric. “CO2 capture" shall mean a capture method that separates post-industrial and/or direct air captured carbon dioxide from 
the air or emission point sources.“CO2 Utilization” shall mean a method of permanently mineralizing CO2 in products. “Net Zero CO2 Emissions” shall 
mean a state whereby the total amount of CO2 utilized and/or captured during the concrete production process and/or  mineralized in concrete 
materials are equal to the amount of CO2 emissions released during the production and utilization of that concrete. “Net Negative CO2 Emissions” 
shall mean a state whereby the amount of CO2 utilized and/or captured during the concrete production process and/or mineralized in concrete 
materials are greater than the amount of CO2 emissions released during the production and utilization of that concrete.

b. When letting contracts for the purchase of 50 yards of concrete or greater on behalf of facilities, transportation authorities and institutions 
of the state, solicitation specifications of the office of general services and any other agency,department, office, board or commission shall 
require provisions that mandatethe incorporation of Low Embodied Carbon Emissions selection standards that are governed by a review of Environmental 
Product Declaration for each product, or by a comparable methodology used to quantify the Global Warming Potential metrics of products. In addition 
to meeting targeted CO2 reductions, Low Embodied Carbon Concrete 1. must meet or exceed engineering performance standards approved by the State of 
New York, and mustnot result in cost escalation for concrete procurement compared to the current market price of conventional concrete. 
To accelerate the technical innovation and market maturation of concrete technologies that have the greatest long-term carbon reduction potential, 
including net-zero and net-negative 17 embodied CO2 emissions, the state will establish the following preferential selection criteria 18 for concrete 
that incorporates CO2 Capture and/or CO2 Utilization: 1. The embodied carbon 19 emissions as measured by a Global Warming Potential metric of CO2 Capture 
and/or CO2 20 Utilization-based concretes must match or exceed all competing alternatives presented in bids; 2. materials must be procured at costs 
no greater than five per cent greater than the current market price of conventional concrete. Analyses of cost impact will measure both material unit 
costs as well as projected negative or positive cost impacts during concrete transportation and construction, or through the increase or displacement 
of other cost-bearing building materials as a result of utilization.

c. The commissioner shall issue regulations for the implementation of this subdivision, including but not limited to:(i) establishing guidelines that 
will assist agencies in determining which contracts meet the requirements in paragraph b of this subdivision; (ii) publishing such purchasing guidelines 
on the office of general services’ website, disseminating such guidelines to agencies and train-ing contracting personnel on implementing such 
guidelines; and (iii) providing for monitoring of implementation.

d.(i) With each offer, offerers incorporating Low Embodied Carbon Emissions Concrete shall submit product-specific Global Warming Potential data derived 
from an EPD analysis or comparable methodology. (ii) Any successful offerer who fails to comply with the provisions of this subdivision, at the discretion 
of such agency, board, office or commission, shall forfeit the right to bid on contracts let under the provisions of this subdivision for a period of time 
to be determined by the commissioner.

e. No later than December first of each year the commissioner shall annually report to the governor and legislature on the implementation_of
this subdivision. Such report shall include, at minimum: (i)a description of the office's efforts to improve and increase thetracking of information relating 
to Low Embodied Carbon Concrete; and (ii) the total amount of carbon dioxide emissions avoided or captured and/or utilized as a result of this subdivision.

§ 3. Section 606 of the tax law is amended by adding a new subsection
(jjj) to read as follows:

The Environmental Product Declaration Analysis Tax Credit. 
(a) Allowance of credit. A taxpayer shall be allowed a credit, to be computed as provided in this subdivision, against the tax imposed by this article, if 
it produces cement and/or concrete in the State of New York and incurs financial burdens by completing Environmental Product Declaration analysis to determine 
the embodied carbon emissions For one or more concrete products, and/or the cement component of one or more concrete
products. 

(b) Amount of credit. A credit authorized by this subdivision shall not exceed 100% of incurred costs for an EPD analysis of a single concrete and/or cement product, 
and may not be claimed for the costs of EPD analyses for more than three products in a single tax year by a single taxpaying entity in tax years 2021 and 2022. A 
credit may not exceed 50% of incurred costs for an EPD analysis of a single concrete and/or cementproduct, and may not be claimed for more than three product EPD 
analyses in a single tax year by a single taxpaying entity in tax years 2022 and 2023. 

(c ) Application of credit. The credit allowed under this subdivision for any taxable year shall not reduce the tax due for such year to less than the fixed dollar 
minimum amount prescribed in paragraph (d) of subdivision one of section two hundred ten of this article. However, if the amount of the credit allowed under this 
subdivision for any taxable year reduces the tax to such amount or if the taxpayer otherwise pays tax based on the fixed dollar minimum amount, any amount of credit 
thus not deductible in such taxable year shall be treated as an overpayment of tax to be credited or refunded in accordance with the provisions of section one thousand 
eighty-six of this chapter. Provided, however, the provisions of subsection ( c ) of section one thousand eighty-eight of this chapter notwithstanding, no interest shall 
be paid thereon.

(d) Definition. For the purposes of this section, “Low Embodied Carbon Concrete ”shall mean concrete that has been verified to embody lower carbon emissions, as measured 
by a Global Warming Potential metric, compared to the baseline embodied carbon emissions of conventional concrete. “Environmental Product Declaration Analysis” shall mean a 
quantitative analysis conducted by a certified third-party to determine the Global Warming Potential and other environmental performance characteristics of concrete and/or 
its constituent cement component. 

