A08617 Text:


 
                STATE OF NEW YORK
        ________________________________________________________________________
 
                                         8617--A
 
                               2019-2020 Regular Sessions
 
                   IN ASSEMBLY
 
                                     October 2, 2019
                                       ___________
 
        Introduced  by M. of A. CARROLL, MOSLEY -- read once and referred to the
          Committee on Governmental Operations  --  committee  discharged,  bill
          amended,  ordered reprinted as amended and recommitted to said commit-
          tee
 
        AN ACT to amend the state finance law and the tax law,  in  relation  to
          implementing  "The New York State Low Embodied Carbon Concrete Leader-
          ship Act"
 
          The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and  Assem-
        bly, do enact as follows:
 
     1    Section  1.  This act shall be known and may be cited as "The New York
     2  State Low Embodied Carbon Concrete Leadership Act".
     3    ยง 2. Section 165 of the state finance law is amended by adding  a  new
     4  subdivision 9 to read as follows:
     5    9. Special provisions for purchase of concrete.
     6    a.  For  the  purposes of this section, the following terms shall have
     7  the following meanings:
     8    (i) "Concrete" shall mean structural and  non-structural  masonry  and
     9  ready mix concrete building products.
    10    (ii)  "Concrete  mix" shall mean a specific combination of components,
    11  including water, cement, aggregate and other materials which are used to
    12  produce concrete products. The structural properties of  concrete  mixes
    13  vary  by strength, durability, curing time and other performance charac-
    14  teristics as a result of the defined proportions of their components and
    15  the methods used in their production.
    16    (iii) "Embodied carbon emissions" shall mean carbon  emissions  gener-
    17  ated as a result of a material's production, including mining, refining,
    18  and shipping.
    19    (iv)  "Low embodied carbon concrete" shall mean concrete that has been
    20  verified to embody lower carbon emissions, as measured by a Global Warm-
    21  ing Potential (GWP) metric, compared to  the  baseline  embodied  carbon
    22  emissions  of  conventional  concrete  made  with  Portland  cement. Low
 
         EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
                              [ ] is old law to be omitted.
                                                                   LBD13765-05-9
        A. 8617--A                          2
 
     1  embodied carbon emissions can be achieved through  diverse  methods  and
     2  processes including, but not limited to: (A) higher energy efficiency at
     3  the  level  of  the  concrete  and/or  cement plant; (B) low carbon fuel
     4  substitution at the level of the concrete and/or cement plant; (C) local
     5  production  resulting  in reduced emissions from transportation; (D) the
     6  reduction of clinker content in the cement component of concrete, or the
     7  substitution of clinker content with lower carbon-intensive  alternative
     8  materials;  (E)  the  capture  and storage of point source CO2 emissions
     9  during the cement and concrete production process; or (F)  the  utiliza-
    10  tion and mineralization of carbon in concrete materials.
    11    (v)  "Environmental  product  declaration  (EPD)"  shall  mean product
    12  specific Type III EPDs that conform to ISO Standard 14025 and enable the
    13  numeric GWP and environmental impact comparisons between concrete  mixes
    14  fulfilling the same functions.
    15    (vi) "CO2 capture" shall mean methods that separate and capture carbon
    16  dioxide from the air and/or industrial emissions point sources.
    17    (vii)  "CO2 utilization" shall mean a method of permanently mineraliz-
    18  ing CO2 in products.
    19    (viii) "Net zero CO2 emissions" shall mean a state whereby  the  total
    20  amount  of  CO2  utilized and/or captured during the concrete production
    21  process and/or mineralized in concrete materials are equal to the amount
    22  of CO2 emissions released during the production and utilization of  that
    23  concrete.
    24    (ix)  "Net  negative  CO2  emissions"  shall  mean a state whereby the
    25  amount of CO2 utilized and/or captured during  the  concrete  production
    26  process  and/or  mineralized  in concrete materials are greater than the
    27  amount of CO2 emissions released during the production  and  utilization
    28  of that concrete.
    29    b.  When  letting  contracts for the purchase of concrete on behalf of
    30  facilities, transportation authorities and institutions  of  the  state,
    31  solicitation  specifications  of  the office of general services and any
    32  other agency, department, office,  board  or  commission  shall  require
    33  provisions  that  mandate the incorporation of low embodied carbon emis-
    34  sions selection standards that  are  governed  by  the  GWP,  quantified
    35  through certified EPD analysis for each concrete mix proposed in bids by
    36  offerers. For bid opportunities that include multiple concrete mixes the
    37  GWP  of  all  mixes will be aggregated into a single GWP score that will
    38  serve as the basis of comparison and selection.    Low  embodied  carbon
    39  concrete  mixes  must  meet  or exceed engineering performance standards
    40  approved by the state  and  must  not  result  in  cost  escalation  for
    41  concrete  procurement  compared  to  the current market price of conven-
    42  tional concrete.
    43    c. For concrete technologies that involve the capture and/or  utiliza-
    44  tion and storage of carbon, and thus theoretically possess the potential
    45  to  attain  net  zero or net negative embodied CO2 emissions in a future
    46  scenario, the state  shall  establish  supplemental  selection  criteria
    47  intended  to  accelerate the market entry of those technologies at pres-
    48  ent, and incentivize technological innovation and  commercialization  of
    49  new carbon utilization technologies in the future. Carbon capture and/or
    50  utilization-based  concrete mixes will be granted preferential selection
    51  in competitive solicitations if such offerings: (i) match or exceed  all
    52  competing  low embodied carbon alternatives offered in bids on the basis
    53  of their GWP; (ii) match  or  exceed  structural  performance  standards
    54  specified  by  the  state; and (iii) can be procured at costs no greater
    55  than: (A) fifteen per cent of the current market price  of  conventional
    56  concrete  in  the first three years of the procurement standard's imple-
        A. 8617--A                          3
 
     1  mentation; (B) ten per cent of the current  market  price  during  years
     2  four  through  six of the procurement standard's implementation; and (C)
     3  five per cent of the current market price  starting  in  year  seven  of
     4  implementation.   To the maximum extent determined to be feasible by the
     5  commissioner, analyses of cost impact will measure  both  material  unit
     6  costs  as  well  as  projected  negative or positive cost impacts during
     7  concrete transportation and construction, or  through  the  increase  or
     8  displacement  of  other  cost-bearing  building materials as a result of
     9  utilization.
    10    d. The commissioner shall issue regulations for the implementation  of
    11  this  subdivision, including but not limited to: (i) establishing guide-
    12  lines that will assist agencies in determining which contracts meet  the
    13  requirements  in  paragraph  b of this subdivision; (ii) publishing such
    14  purchasing guidelines  on  the  office  of  general  services'  website,
    15  disseminating  such  guidelines  to  agencies  and  training contracting
    16  personnel on implementing such guidelines; and (iii) providing for moni-
    17  toring of implementation.
    18    e. (i) With each offer, offerers  incorporating  low  embodied  carbon
    19  emissions  concrete  shall submit product-specific GWP data derived from
    20  an EPD analysis or comparable methodology. (ii) Any  successful  offerer
    21  who  fails  to  comply  with  the provisions of this subdivision, at the
    22  discretion of such agency, board, office or  commission,  shall  forfeit
    23  the  right to bid on contracts let under the provisions of this subdivi-
    24  sion for a period of time to be determined by the commissioner.
    25    ยง 3. Section 606 of the tax law is amended by adding a new  subsection
    26  (kkk) to read as follows:
    27    (kkk)  The  environmental  product  declaration  tax credit. (a) Defi-
    28  nitions. For the purposes of this section:
    29    (i) "low embodied carbon concrete" shall mean concrete that  has  been
    30  verified  by  environmental  product  declaration to embody lower carbon
    31  emissions, as measured by  a  Global  Warming  Potential  (GWP)  metric,
    32  compared  to  the  baseline  embodied  carbon  emissions of conventional
    33  concrete.
    34    (ii) "environmental product declaration  (EPD)  analysis"  shall  mean
    35  product  specific  Type  III EPDs that conform to ISO Standard 14025 and
    36  enable global warming potential (GWP) and environmental  impact  compar-
    37  isons between products fulfilling the same functions.
    38    (b) Allowance of credit. Producers of concrete, as well as the produc-
    39  ers  of  the  major  concrete components, cement and aggregate, that are
    40  taxpayers shall be allowed a credit, to be computed as provided in  this
    41  subsection,  against  the tax imposed by this article, to compensate for
    42  financial burdens incurred as a result of  EPD  analyses  undertaken  to
    43  determine the product-based embodied carbon emissions of one or multiple
    44  concrete  products produced at one or multiple plants that such taxpayer
    45  owns and operates.
    46    (c) Amount of credit. The credit authorized by this  subsection  shall
    47  not  exceed  the  full  costs  incurred  for an EPD analysis of a single
    48  concrete, cement  and/or  aggregate  production  facility,  and  may  be
    49  claimed  for the costs of completing EPD analyses at up to eight facili-
    50  ties owned by the same producer in a single tax year by a single taxpay-
    51  ing entity in tax years two thousand twenty, two thousand twenty-one and
    52  two thousand twenty-two. The credit authorized by this subsection  shall
    53  not  exceed  fifty  percent  of incurred costs for EPD analysis at up to
    54  eight concrete, cement or aggregate facilities owned by the same produc-
    55  er in a single tax year by a single taxpaying entity in  tax  years  two
        A. 8617--A                          4
 
     1  thousand twenty-three and two thousand twenty-four. Tax credit eligibil-
     2  ity will expire at the end of two thousand twenty-four.
     3    (d)  Application  of  credit. The credit allowed under this subsection
     4  for any taxable year shall not reduce the tax due for such year to  less
     5  than  the  fixed  dollar  minimum amount prescribed in  paragraph (d) of
     6  subdivision one of section two hundred ten of this article. However,  if
     7  the  amount  of the credit allowed under this subsection for any taxable
     8  year reduces the tax to such amount or if the  taxpayer  otherwise  pays
     9  tax  based on the fixed dollar minimum amount, any amount of credit thus
    10  not deductible in such taxable year shall be treated as  an  overpayment
    11  of  tax  to be credited or refunded in accordance with the provisions of
    12  section one thousand eighty-six of this chapter. Provided, however,  the
    13  provisions  of  subsection  (c)  of section one thousand eighty-eight of
    14  this chapter notwithstanding, no interest shall be paid thereon.
    15    ยง 4. This act shall take effect on the first of January next  succeed-
    16  ing  the  date  on  which  it shall have become a law and shall apply to
    17  taxable years commencing on and after such date. Effective  immediately,
    18  the  addition,  amendment and/or repeal of any rule or regulation neces-
    19  sary for the implementation of  this  act  on  its  effective  date  are
    20  authorized to be made and completed on or before such effective date.
